 I’m Pally, which is a moniker derived from my actual name, Ratnadeep Palshetkar. I am a part of FICC Macro Technology, which enables macro lines of businesses such as Rates, Financing, FX, LCT, and Commodities. I contribute to Risk/UI & Trade Horizontal foundations. My current role focuses on streamlining technology offerings for FICC Macro Trading, Risk/PL/Pricing, and front office sourcing for enterprise downstream. We help drive product and business expansion across 11 countries in Asia.

I was born in a lovely village nestled midway between Mumbai and Goa. Electricity was a novelty in India during those times, and lantern-lit dinners and homework were a daily ritual for me. That was, until I moved to Mumbai to attend IIT (Indian Institute of Technlogy) Bombay.

Lesson learned: Follow the light. You’ll appreciate it more when you’ve known the dark.

It’s astonishing to think how my career could have been so different. During my last year at IIT, I won the best actor award in a dramatics competition and suddenly felt like I should pursue a career in acting. However, one of my support structures and advisors made me aware of Tom Cruise’s existence.

Lesson learned: Be self-assured and realistic. Having good advisors/critics are a necessity in times of uncertainty.

My 25-year career has spanned a diverse range of locations and firms. Through campus placements, I landed a job at Citigroup's offshore development center in Mumbai, which later took me to Citibank Tokyo to support their Fixed Income/Equity Derivatives desk as a single-person team. It was daunting, as my experience with trading was limited, but I quickly adapted to being a Unix SA/DBA/developer/BA/production support.

I later moved to Salomon Brothers when Citibank and Travellers merged. Back then, there were almost no regulations, production access, or freedom to release daily or run production jobs from the development environment. It was a time when issues were not considered issues until they were found. I was lucky that I never got caught, even though there were a few instances where I accidentally wiped the entire production database and had to work tirelessly to recover it.

Lesson learned: Know your clients and work with an empathetic approach when systems don’t work. Also, have a sound understanding of what you're doing so that you can quickly recover if you break the systems.

After Salomon Brothers, I joined Lehman Brothers. Initially, I was planning to quit within a week due to an altercation with the head trader. However, I was informed by my bosses that I was primarily hired to handle him because no one else in the tech team could. (The same trader even offered me a trader job, but the thought of managing 6 or 7 screens overwhelmed me.)

I spent close to 10 years in Tokyo, working for Salomon Brothers, Citigroup, and Lehman Brothers, before Merrill Lynch offered me an opportunity in Hong Kong to form a team that would assist in the expansion of the LCT desk. Suraj was one of the interviewers, and it was kind of him not to ask any C/C++ questions to a Perl programmer. Or maybe I managed to distract him with talks of how I could be a jack of all trades. After three years at Merrill Lynch, I moved to Singapore and had stints at Credit Suisse and JPMorgan.

Suraj decided to take the same risk with me again and I got back to HK. 

Lesson learned: Find good bosses who’ll fight for you. They stretch you to the limit and help you learn via continuous feedback loops. The more brutal the feedback, the better. They’ll market your strengths and temper your weaknesses. Most importantly, never burn bridges. Keep those connections alive even if you part ways. Bosses prefer working with someone familiar rather than someone unknown.

Timing worked out perfectly. The year I joined BIB and CPRT coincided with significant developments in global markets. Asia's complexities became known worldwide. Quartz investment started showing tremendous potential, testing my team. We were fortunate to hire talented individuals at all levels.

Over the past eight years, the organisation has undergone immense transformation. My role expanded, and now we have nearly 90 people across six countries supporting approximately $1 billion in revenue across 12 countries. We identified opportunities through consolidation, breaking down LOB and regional silos, and adopting a horizontal approach. We aim for thin LOB verticals with a strong core horizontal foundation to become simpler, better, and more cost-effective. We defined the ideal team structure, created roles, identified skill gaps, and brought in the right people to deliver as a team. Front office engagement has never been better.

IBOR, CPRT, CIRT, BIB, P2-GRET, Venues — the list goes on, but the business started seeing returns on investment and efficiencies.

Lesson learned: Have a support structure you trust. Understand the strategy, roadmap, and reasons behind them. Grasp the business context. Approach your work with childlike curiosity. Don't start coding until you understand how the business will perceive the end outcome of your development. Engage with subject matter until you fully comprehend it. Find where you can contribute impactfully. The organisation is diverse and broad; recognise your unique strengths, stay attentive, and you’ll uncover unseen opportunities. 

It has been a fantastic ride so far. Global and regional senior leadership teams have trusted me not to drop the ball and achieve both short-term and long-term wins. I've been in the right place at the right time with the right people, and the SLT and business have placed immense trust in me.

I do feel like I've been sailing within my comfort zone in FICC. However, I enjoy making my world better and more automated without coding. When you have a support system that is creative, innovative, and embraces challenges, it gives me the opportunity to expand my comfort zone.

Behind who I am today, there are three women who give me the space to pursue my passions without interference. My wife Anita (who loves cooking and taking care of us) has known me since second grade. She left her profession as a lawyer after we got married, but continues to practice her skills at home, winning all the family disputes. Tanvi, my eldest, loves playing the piano and is fluent at bargaining in Cantonese. She was born in Tokyo. Vaibhavi, born in Hong Kong, is a jack of all trades. She is the Editor-in-Chief of the school arts magazine, runs the Medics Club, interned with SCMP’s Young Post, and is a huge anime fan. She’s keen on spending her time on the crane machines at Akihabara when we visit Tokyo. Fun fact: both of my daughters share the same birthday.

My personal space once I leave the office is comprised of the tram journey from work to home. The tram is the best place to unwind after a hectic day. (My New Year's resolution is to walk back home, but the start date is yet to be determined.) 

When it comes to wellbeing, I make it a point to play badminton for at least 3–4 hours every week. I've tried meditation, but simply sitting still and not doing another activity doesn't work for me. I'm considering trying yoga, as it might help me in that aspect.

I'm a big fan of streaming services, but I struggle to optimise my time because I'm spoiled for choice. ChatGPT has been quite helpful with providing recommendations. Currently, I'm serially watching "Curb Your Enthusiasm." I've also started listening to audiobooks while granting myself permission to walk and listen.

I love eating and consider myself a big foodie with a sweet tooth. Some of my favorite foods include Anita's chicken sandwiches, Tom Yum spaghetti, spicy kingfish, anything Goan (I’m not one to ever miss an annual visit to Goa), and Japanese dishes like Capricciosa tomato garlic spaghetti, spicy chicken, tsukune under Yurakucho Subway, and anything at Gonpachi (the Kill Bill place).

I actively code over the weekend and try out new technologies. I recently learned Flutter UI and GCP, and now I'm delving into GenAl.

I've read quite a few Medium articles and I often get overwhelmed, constantly searching for the best approach to certain problems. It bores me tremendously to click the same button twice to do the same thing. For example, I dislike setting up multiple alarms manually on my iPhone, so I created an Apple Automator script to automate the process. I try to automate various aspects of my digital life, such as photo organisation, mail handling, and personal finances. I even built an iOS app for tracking net worth, although it never made it to the shelves of the App Store. I used Google Cloud for learning purposes, even though it wasn't necessary for my app.

Now I'm faced with a new challenge: figuring out how to send all my personal documents to GenAl so that I can ask questions about them. If I'm not multitasking, it makes me anxious. However, I choose my second task carefully, ensuring that I can handle it with unfocused attention. Thus, while I'm coding, I enjoy watching Hindi movies.o

Trick Question
===============

Reminds me of good math puzzle, in a room full of N people, find the probabability of n people sharing same birthday. 
Few folks across GTO celebrated their birthdays over last weekend. Very rare coincidence. Guess who. 

Resolutions
===========

2023 was magically too swift and seems fair to carry those recent resolutions in 2024.

1. Parting ways with my beloved HK tram and choosing a brisk walk home

2. Aim launching my app on the App Store, a personal project I've diligently
worked on for years, and has been my perpetual New Year resolution.

(Blame it on the evolution of new technologies and my urge to learn and force
use it even if not required. Though the primary reason, my furious
typing/reading and research creates the illusion of a busy weekend, sparing me
from household chores. Who wants to be blamed for not supporting the next
Microsoft/Apple and Tesla)

3. Addressing small personal automation POCs using GenAI + RAG (Retrieval
Augmented Generation), aiming to be 1% ready for the future of workforce.

#NewYearGoals #TechAdventures


Grateful for robust business ties demanding excellence, urging us to deliver
simpler, better solutions. Despite challenges, trust empowers us to exceed
expectations. These relationships are the bedrock of our commitment to
excellence; we value their confidence. The synergy between technology and
business has reached new heights. Open dialogues around technology limitations,
regulatory requirements, and business opportunities are breaking barriers
across lines of business. We're driving horizontal optimization, identifying
synergies that contribute significantly. Notably, our strategic technology
innovation and agile prioritization, with the right blend of quick investments,
have played a crucial role in the record returns witnessed in the markets.


Notes to myself - Maintain Positivity: Begin with a "can do" approach,
reserving room for challenges without dwelling on them initially. Recruit Top
Talent: Surround yourself with positive individuals who excel beyond your own
abilities. Choose Direct Leaders: Opt for bosses who communicate openly and
directly, avoiding unnecessary complexity. Anticipate Future Needs: Plan ahead
to stay prepared for upcoming challenges and opportunities. Foster
Self-awareness: Understand your strengths and weaknesses for continuous
personal growth. Leverage Your Network: Identify the best advisors within your
network for personal and professional challenges. Give First, Expect Later:
Prioritize generosity by offering assistance before seeking reciprocation.
Simplify Business-Tech Connections: Explain the connection between business
goals and technology using straightforward language. Streamline Automation for
Tedious Tasks: Ease mundane responsibilities with automation for increased
efficiency without unnecessary complexity. Identify Talent Gaps: Recognize
skill gaps and hire individuals for specific roles rather than creating roles
to fit people.



I am Ratnadeep Palshetkar AKA Pally. I am part of FICC Macro Technology,
supporting macro lines of businesses such as Rates, Financing, FX, LCT, and
Commodities. The team streamlines the technology offerings for FICC Macro
domains like eTrading, Risk/PL/Pricing and enterprise reporting

Over the past eight years in my role, the Macro organization has undergone
significant transformation. We have focused on consolidation, breaking LOB and
regional silos and building strong horizontal foundations. We have played huge
role where business ROI and efficiencies have improved where we are delivering
technology better, simpler and cheaper. 

We are close to 90 people strong across six countries, supporting business
revenue of close to ~1B across 12 countries. 

I was born in a lovely village nestled midway between Mumbai and Goa. I
couldn't escape my parents at home and they followed me every day to the school
as my primary school teachers where I was under their constant watch.

With lack of Electricity at home those days, Lantern-Light Dinner/homework was
daily ritual till | moved to Mumbai for senior school and I did my graduation
from IIT Mumbai.

LEARNT - "Follow the light. Appreciate it even more if you have experienced the
dark"

My career choice could have been different...I had won best actor in dramatics
competition during last year of my graduation and suddenly had this itch to
pursue career in acting; One of my critical close friend made me aware of the
Tom Cruise looks and Amitabh Bacchan acting to get to the top.

LEARNT - "Be self-aware and realistic. Always have good advisors/open critics
with you though you can be your best critic"

My 25 years of career have been quite diverse in terms of location and the
firms I have worked for. 

I started my career at Citigroup's offshore development center in Mumbai, then
moved to Citibank Tokyo to support their Fixed Income/Equity Derivatives desk.
I loved being jack of everything, did every job possible like Unix
SA/DBA/developer/BA/PM/MAPS. Had truncated entire production database two times
accidently (those days, no change MRA restrictions and releaes were every day
if not every few hours), wasn't found and I had all nighter; and morning was
 peaceful back to BAU. Those days 'Issue was not an issue till found'

LEARNT - "During early phase in your career, get more exposed to the different
areas/system problems, Just do anything which comes your way, have quick wins
in your new role and zero in on what your comfort zone would be for next few
years and be the best in it. As you show that hunger and curiocity to learn,
you will break things/fail. Be the expert to recover responsibly. Make sure you
don't give shocks to your bosses. Every failure is great learning"

Post Salomon it was Lehman brothers. I was going to quit within a week due to
altercation with the head trader til| was told by my bosses that I was mainly
hired to handle him because no one in tech handle him. My thick skin was
famously known to my boss. The same trader offered me a trading job, but 6/7
monitors just overwhelmed me and I just loved solving technology problems.

LEARNT - "Have good bosses around you who you can talk to openly about anything
so that you don't take rash decisions. Understand your client challenges and
their user experience expectations and work with them. PS: In the hindsight
though, I could have at least done trading for 1/2 months and come back to
tech"

I was in Tokyo for close to 10 years and Merrill came calling for HK
opportunity to form team helping the expansion of LCT desk which was getting
newly established. Suraj was one of the interviewers and was too kind to ask
any C/C++ questions to a Perl programmer. Or maybe I marketed myself about all
the stories around how I could be jack of everything. After 3 years in ML, I
moved to Singapore and had short stints within CS and JPM. 

I returned to Hong Kong when Suraj offered me an opportunity to lead LCT for
Asia and I rejoined. 

LEARNT - "Never burn bridges in any org so that you can get rehired for that
niche which you have chosen carefully where you have established yourselves. Be
that special to have only your name pops up in the boss's head. Keep these
connections live even if you part ways. Bosses love to work with the devil they
know than god they don't. PS: Grass is not always that greener on other side"

It has been great journey so far being in right place at the right time with
right people with immense trust placed by SLT/team and the business. I was
fortunate to have good hands on bosses to work for who you can learn from with
continuous feeback loop with open mind and no words minced. We were in sync
around what could move the needle for the organization and it just was tied
with my passions.

Thinking about it, I just kept on sailing through the comfort zone within FICC.
But I did/do like making my world better/more automated/no-code. When you have
good support structure and team who is creative, innovative and challenges like
to like , opportunities just open up to expand that comfort zone. 

Behind the person and professional, I am today I have support structure of
three ladies back home who really leave me alone to follow my passions which
forunately don't intersect with theirs which saves them from my unsolicited
advices. 

My wife Anita loves cooking and feeding us. She makes one of the best Chicken
sandwiches, Tom Yum Spaghetti and Spicy kingfish. We know each other since 2nd
grade from school. She left her law profession once we got married and moved to
Tokyo though continues to practice those skills at home where I haven't won a
single argument. Anita was taught by my mother during school days and that
continues till date. 

My elder daughter Tanvi who was born in Tokyo, loves playing piano, learning
Cantonese and is our bargain shopper. Younger daughter Vaibhavi was born in
Hong Kong, is studying in her first year of IB, is chief editor for school
English magazine, runs medics club. She recently finished her internship with
SCMP (South China Morning Post). She has recently become Japanese anime fan and
is eagerly waiting for her first visit to Tokyo and Akihabara is top on her
list.

Both of my daughters share the same birthday. 

I am in love with my own routines. They start with tram as I end my day in the
office. Tram is the best place to start unwinding your day. 

I actively code over the weekend and try new simple technologs on the block (I
learnt Flutter Ul/GCP and now trying to get hands dirty on GenAl). Small POCs
solving your personal problems are best way to learn new technologies.

I read Medium/Stackoverflow/Github a lot and get overwhelmed searching what is
the best approach to certain problem. I do try to automate my digital life as
much as possible, like photo organization, mail handling, personal finances or
my 30 min nagging alarm which attracts unfriendly stares from GMT management
and my team. For one of my app, I used Google cloud/AWS just for learning sake
even if was not required. 

If I am not doing two thing in parallel, I get anxious,but I choose my second
target carefully where unfocussed attention could work. So during the weekend
when I am coding, I watch Hindi movies where you can pay attention for brief 1
min and you can guess the entire plot. Now I am binge-watching Curb your
enthusiam.

Given need to have some personal focus, I play badminton for at least 4-5 hours
every week. I tried meditation but just sitting and not doing second thing in
parallel couldn't cut it. 

I am big foody, have sweet tooth. Beyond Anita's specialities, and anything
Goan, I do miss my favourites from Japan; like Ninniku Tomato Spaghetti from
Capriciossa, Spicy Chicken place under Yurakucho JR station...Sweets just too
many too count...

We enjoy our frequent family visits to Goa, get captivated by its mountains,
pristine beaches & rice fields, and unique blend of cosmopolitan plus
village-like identity. The vibrant Goan cuisine adds to the allure, makesit a
perfect destination





My food tastes match my nature,

there. I am big fan of streaming services and struggle with optimizing time
given so spoiled with choices. ChatGPT is helping quite a bit where you can
send the list of your favorites and it can give good suggestions. Now serially
watching Curb your Enthusiasm. Also now onto some audiobooks when Igrant the
permission to the road for me to walk on IloveeatingI
ambigfoody,havesweettooth.
Myfavoritefood;Anita'sChickensandwiches,TomYumSpaghetti and Spicy kingfish;
Anything Goan (Goa is my hideaway. Idon't miss visiting Goa every year at any
cost); And Japan - Capriciossa Tomato Garlic Spaghetti &Spicy Chicken and
Tsukune under Yura

================================================================================================================




with you. Spend some time to understand what moves the needle for them and be
there with them"

Suraj decided to take the same risk with me again and I got back to HK. This
has been the longest inning ever for ne during my professional journey.

Learnt; Find good bosses to work for who fight for you. They shield your
weaknesses/stretch you to get setter/and you are learning via continuous
feedback loop. More brutal feedback even better. They market your strengths
more which eclipses those small black dots you may be working on getting better
at. And most importantly never burn bridges...Keep these connections live even
fi you separate ways. Bosses love to work with the devil they know than god
they don't. PS: Grass is not always that greener on other side.... 

















I have learned the importance of having a great support structure, having deep
understanding business roadmap and importance of planning fo, having childlike
curiocity, hunger of being better and continuously improving what you have
built, finding your niche

It is importNot starting coding until I understand the desired outcome. It's
important to seek input from subject matter experts and find a unique and
impactful role within the organization. By remaining open and observant,
unexpected opportunities can arise.


I later joined Salomon Brothers, where we accomplished the integration of
derivatives within a few months. I also worked at Lehman Brothers before
joining Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. After three years at Merrill Lynch, I moved
to Singapore and had stints at Credit Suisse and JPMorgan.













===============================================================================

Throughout my journey, timing has played a significant role. I joined during
significant developments in global markets, such as BIB and CPRT. Asia
complexities became known globally, and Quartz investment showed tremendous
potential. My team faced challenges but also hired talented individuals at all
levels.





I am known as Pally acronymed from my long Indian name Ratnadeep Palshetkar. I
am part of FICC Macro Technology which enables macro lines of businesses(Rates,
Financing, FX, LCT and Commodities) and contribut into Risk/Ul &Trade
Horizontal foundations. My current role focusses on streamlining technology
offering for FICC Macro eTrading, Risk/PL/Pricing and front office sourcing for
enterprise downstream. We help to drive product anc business expansion for
across 1 countries within Asia.

My 25 years of career have been quite diverse in terms of location and the
firms I have worked for.

Iwas born in a lovely village nestled midway between Mumbai and Goa. Icouldn't
escape my parents and they followed me every day to the school and they
continued to do that as my primary school teachers where Iwas unde their
constant watch. Electricity was novelty in India during those times.
Lantern-Light Dinner/homework was daily ritual till | moved to Mumbai for
senior school and Idid my graduation from IT Mumbai. lesson Learnt; Follow the
light. You appreciate it more when you have experienced the dark.

Through campus, I landed a job at Citigroup offshore development center in
Mumbai which took me to Citibank Tokyo to support their Fixed income/equity
derivatives desk as single person team (Daunting when your skin has not become
that thick with little experience very little experience dealing with trading
but it got easier where Icould be unix SA/DBA/developer/BA/production support
and jack of everything. 

That was the start of my career journey within Markets FO technology. Moved to
Salomon Brothers as Citibank/Travellers merged and we had three people in the
team in tech who did whole derivatives integration within few months.... 

(Almost no regulation/production access/freedom to release daily/or running
production jobs from dev environment just did wonders and I was lucky Inever
got caught where two three times Iwiped entire production database and SOD was
like nothing happened except me sleeping in the office post herculean
recoveries and napping next day. Those were the days where it was issue is not
an issue till it is found. 

Lesson Learnt; Know the pains of your client well and think how they might be
thinking in their head fi systems don't work. And then know what you are doing
really really well so that you can recover quickly fi you break systems. 

 
 Suraj decided to take the same risk with me again and I got back to HK. This
 has been the longest inning ever for ne during my professional journey.

 Learnt; Find good bosses to work for who fight for you. They shield your
 weaknesses/stretch you to get setter/and you are learning via continuous
 feedback loop. More brutal feedback even better. They market your strengths
 more which eclipses those small black dots you may be working on getting
 better at. And most importantly never burn bridges...Keep these connections
 live even fi you separate ways. Bosses love to work with the devil they know
 than god they don't. PS: Grass is not always that greener on other side.... 

 My Journey so far; Timing just worked out. 

 The year I joined BIB and CPRT were the biggest things within global markets.
 Asia complexities got known globally. Finally Quartz investment started
 showing tremendous potential. It tested my team, we were also fortunate to
 hire good talent across all levels. Over the course of last 8 years,
 organization has been transforming. My role also expanded where we now have
 close to 90 people across 6 countries supporting ~1B revenue across 12
 countries. We found opportunities via consolidation/breaking LOB and regional
 silos and running horizontally. 

 Thin LOB verticals but strong core horizontal foundation is what we are
 pushing for us to be simpler/better/cheaper. Front office engagement has never
 been this better. We defined what the team should look like and created roles,
 identified skills gaps and brought in right people into right role to make us
 whole complementing each other to deliver as team.
 IBOR/CPRT/CIRT/BIB/P2-GRETVenues list goes on but business started seeing ROl
 and efficiencies. Lesson Learnt: 

 Have a support structure you trust. Understand strategy/roadmap and whys,
 Understand the business. Be childlike curious. Don't start coding til you
 understand how business would see the end outcome of your development. Bother
 the SMEs til you know it. Re your place ni the org; Find where you would be
 unique, most valuable and impactful, where you see the gap. Find that right
 sweet spot. The organization is diverse/broad and fi you know that unique
 power of yours, keep your eyes and ears wide open and you wil see
 opportunities you never thought about. Has been great ride so far. 

 I have been trusted by global and regional SLT for not dropping so many balls
 and balancing quick as well as long terms wins. I have been in the right place
 at right time with right people with immense trust placed by SLT and business. 

 If not for some of those short term/emotional decisions along the way, I would
 have had my sabbatical earlier.

